Well, we’ve got the text:
“I was given a thorn in the flesh.”
We’re going to talk a little bit about that.
So you think or you may say:
‘I know what it means
‘to have a thorn in the flesh.
‘I feel it.
‘It hurts.
‘It’s like stepping on a sharp needle
with your bare foot.
It hurts.’
But now, here’s a question:
Is a (that is one) needle in your foot
that bad?
Just one needle
—I’d bet it hurts.
And see that picture up there?
See a little blood coming out?
Looks like he’s getting ready to slap it,
but I don’t think he’d do that.
But I bet it hurts.
It’s more than just a sting.
Just one “thorn in the flesh” hurts.
But suppose that’s all you have
—one thorn in the flesh.
But what can hurt worse?
Take a look.
Ow!
Look at all those thorns
all over the man’s body!
Now, I’m going to tell you
a little bit about this man.
This man fell into a pile of thorns
—thorny, barberry branches.
And when he tried to get up,
he fainted from pain
because thousands of needlelike thorns
were in his flesh.
So for the following six years,
both he and his doctors
picked barbs from his body,
totaling 32,131 thorns.
Phew!
That hurts.
Now, what did I hear you say
about your one needle?
But you say:
“But it’s hard to take, Brother Herd!
“It hurts, and it’s perplexing!
It’s getting me down!”
Well, can you still walk?
Can you move about?
Paul didn’t let his needle, whatever it was,
get him down.
He had to live with it.
And with Jehovah’s help,
you too will be able
to handle the discomfort.
Now, if you can,
take a look at what the Bible says,
something that Paul wrote
—2 Corinthians 4:8, 9.
This is what he said:
“We are hard-pressed in every way,
“but not cramped beyond movement;
“we are perplexed
“[I want you to concentrate
on that word “perplexed”],
“but not absolutely with no way out;
“we are persecuted, but not abandoned;
we are knocked down, but not destroyed.”
Now, think about it.
When did you get your thorn?
Was it before your dedication and baptism?
Before you were baptized,
you prayed earnestly
from the depths of your heart to Jehovah
for forgiveness.
Now you must accept
his merciful forgiveness.
But it still hurts from time to time.
Paul didn’t say that it wouldn’t.
Yes, you were “knocked down”
but not trampled on “beyond movement.”
So what do we say?
We say: “Stand up!
“Get off the ground!
“Get on your feet!
“Move forward toward the new world
that’s just around the corner.”
Here’s something to think about:
Think about King David.
He got another man’s wife pregnant,
and then he tried to hide it.
But he couldn’t.
So he had him killed.
Now, he repented from the heart,
and Jehovah forgave him.
He found solace.
However, Jehovah did not eliminate
the painful consequences of his sin.
The effects were to continue with David
for the rest of his sinful, imperfect life.
What do you think of when you see
a beautiful little hummingbird?
Isn’t that something?
What comes to my mind when I see one?
Me, at the age of 12 or 13,
walking in the woods near my house.
Upon seeing a hummingbird
on a limb of a tree,
I took my slingshot and pebble
and knocked it out of the tree,
stone dead.
I wasn’t in the truth at the time.
I killed a beautiful little bird.
For what reason?
I couldn’t eat it.
Well, maybe to prove to myself
that I was a dead shot with my slingshot.
Jehovah created the colorful little bird
to bring delight to the eye.
Well, that’s a sad experience.
It’s mine, not yours.
But do you have one, a sad experience?
Some painful experiences
may not quickly leave the brain
after repentance and God’s forgiveness.
But what do we say?
We say: “Don’t dwell on them.
“Don’t keep them before your eyes
all the time.
Push them aside
by thinking about good things.”
Why not open the door to your brain and mind
and let the good things come in?
Simply put,
put a bandage on your thorn
a little while longer.
Jehovah will pluck it out very soon now,
and the pain will be long gone forever.
Remember this verse?
This may have been one of the first verses
that you took to memory,
put to memory,
and used in the field.
Where is it?
Well, it’s Revelation 21:4.
When I used to get out going door to door,
I still used that scripture a lot.
Here it says: “And he will wipe out
every tear from their eyes,
“and death will be no more,
“neither will mourning nor outcry
nor pain be anymore.
The former things have passed away.”
Now, when that happens,
we can say goodbye forever.
This kind of pain will never return.
“Bye-bye, pain
“—out of sight and felt no more.
“So the tree or bush producing the thorns
“has been uprooted
“and presently is nonproductive.
Thank Jehovah!”